---
title: "Measuring Long Stellar Rotation Periods (>10 days) from TESS FFI Light Curves is Possible: An Investigation Using TESS and ZTF"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
# permalink: /publication/2025-06-05-ZTF-TESS
excerpt: "Soichiro Hattori, Ruth Angus, Daniel Foreman-Mackey, Yuxi (Lucy) Lu, and Isabel Colman"
date: 2025-06-05
venue: 'The Astronomical Journal'
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-3881/add0ab/meta'
citation: 'Soichiro Hattori et al 2025 AJ 170 15'
---
The rotation period of a star is an important quantity that provides insight into its structure and state. For stars with surface features like starspots, their periods can be inferred from brightness variations as these features move across the stellar surface. TESS, with its all-sky coverage, is providing the largest sample of stars for obtaining rotation periods. However, most of the periods have been limited to shorter than the 13.7 days TESS orbital period due to strong background signals (e.g., scattered light) on those timescales. In this study, we investigated the viability of measuring longer periods (>10 days) from TESS light curves for stars in the Northern Continuous Viewing Zone (NCVZ). We first created a reference set of 272 period measurements longer than 10 days for K and M dwarfs in the NCVZ using data from the Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) that we consider as the “ground truth” given ZTF’s long temporal baseline of 6+ years. We then used the unpopular pipeline to detrend TESS light curves and implemented a modified Lomb–Scargle (LS) periodogram that accounts for flux offsets between observing sectors. For 179 out of the 272 sources (66%), the TESS-derived periods match the ZTF-derived periods to within 10%. The match rate increases to 81% (137 out of 170) when restricting to sources with a TESS LS power that exceeds a threshold. Our results confirm the capability of measuring periods longer than 10 days from TESS data, highlighting the data set’s potential for studying slow rotators.